# About the Data

Gun violence in America is one of the most politicized and contriversal topics of the twenty first century. The increasing number of mass shootings occuring in public places has drawn increased media attention and kept the gun control debate in the forefront of most Americans minds.   

This project involves investigating the American deaths caused by firearms. Specifically, I am interested in exploring the relationship between intentional and accidental deaths related to firearms. The data in this project comes from the Center for Disease Control and Prevention, and the Web-based Injury Statistics Query and Reporting System, which is also run by the CDC. Another portion of my data came from the National Gun Violence Archieve. There currently isn't a large public dataset related to gun violence in America, and this project involved creating the first public database of its kind on the internet. An interesting effect of how politicized gun violence in America is would be the lack of a public dataset related to firearm injuries in the United States. The data included in my project includes the deaths caused by firearms in the United States between the years of 2001 and 2017. Some variables included in the data set would be: death rate per 1,000 people by state, number of people killed each year by firearms, was there a violent intent in the death or was it an accident. I hope to explore the relationship between location and firearm deaths in the country, and possibly compare that information with gun control laws to see if there is a correlation. 
